Adds VideoEncoder (#8989)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/videoencoder/encode/index.md

---
title: VideoEncoder.encode()
slug: Web/API/VideoEncoder/encode
tags:
  - API
  - Method
  - Reference
  - encode
  - VideoEncoder
browser-compat: api.VideoEncoder.encode
---
{{securecontext_header}}{{DefaultAPISidebar("WebCodecs API")}}

The **`encode()`** method of the {{domxref("VideoEncoder")}} interface enqueues a control message to encode a given {{domxref("VideoFrame")}}.

## Syntax

```js
VideoEncoder.encode(frame);
VideoEncoder.encode(frame, options);
```

### Parameters

- `frame`
  - : A {{domxref("VideoFrame")}} object.
- `options`{{Optional_Inline}}

>   - : A dictionary object containing the following member:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : An object containing the following member:
```

    - `keyFrame`
      - : A {{jsxref("boolean")}}, defaulting to `false` giving the user agent flexibility to decide if this frame should be encoded as a key frame. If `true` this indicates that the given frame must be encoded as a key frame.

### Return Value

{{jsxref("Undefined")}}.

### Exceptions

- {{domxref("DOMException")}} `InvalidStateError`
  - : Thrown if the {{domxref("VideoEncoder.state","state")}} is not `"configured"`.
- {{domxref("DOMException")}} `DataError`

>   - : Thrown if the `chunk` is unable to be decoded due to relying on other frames for decoding.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : Thrown if the `chunk` cannot be decoded due to relying on other frames for decoding.
```
